Hello, this is Jerremy creech, I am a manager at Cisco's system. I am working
inside of the product developpement for the Cisco's networking accademy
program. And you are listening to the first of a series of podcast introducing
the internet of everything, or, as we call it, the IOE. This podcast series is
a companion to the Cisco networking academy's introduction to the IOE course
and today we will be answering the question "What is the IOE ?".

My guest today are Dane Albargetty, you might know him from danecourses.com. He
is also a cheap contributor inside the content developpement for the networking
accademy program. And also joining us is Rodrigo Foriano Technologist
extraordinary and also key contributor to a lot of the activity developpement
and content developpement inside of the networking academy program as well. And
then also joining us from the Cartel of ??? is Bernadette O'Brian, Networking
academy instructor and also contributor to networking academy developpement and
the content we create. And the last and certainely not least is Bob Fishon also
a networking academy instrucor, award winning instructor in canada. Also a
Cisco Press author.

So as we talked about the evolution of internet we witnessed a number of
different distinct phases. Among these phases connectivity starting in the late
60's and that's when, you know, we were just starting to get disparate
computing system connected together just for the basic sharing of information.
From there it kind of transitionned into a system of exchange with the network
economy, where thing became more transactional. We saw the rise of e-commerce
and then, more recently we've seen the collaborative experience in the internet
where getting the right people doing the right thing together at the right
time, you know, all empowered of and facilate by the internet, but most recent
is the current tranistion that's taking place with the internet of everything,
the IOE. And so, Rodrigo, can you tell me what is the IOE ?

So, I'm just gonna give you an exemple : Let's say you need to buy a pair of
shoes for someone that you love and so you get on your phone and you give im a
call and of course this is a video call. This is not the 1960's anymore. So you
get on your phone, you place the video call and you have a little conversation
trying to learn a little more about what kind of shoes the person likes right ?
So, once you know that you get in your car and you realize that the mall
close-by has the perfect store for you to buy that pair of shoes. So you push
the address of the mall into your GPS and you just go to that mall. Your car
,because of the GPS, it knows where it's close to the mall and when as it
approches the mall it is able to talk to the computer at the mall handling the
parking lot and asks for a parking spot. When comming in a mall, I need a
parking spot. The mall computer handeling the parking lot has informations of
course on the parking lot what's taken and what's available, but it also knows
about the weather, it knows about the city, it knows about what time it is, it
knows that it's about to get a rush hour, And it knows also that in that
specific city, the north portion of the city get really bad when it's rush hour
and it's about to rain. So the computer picks up a free parking spot toward the
south side of that mall to make it easier for you to leave the mall. So the
computer get's that information through your gps and now you can safefully
navigate to what is currently at that specific moment, the best parking spot in
the mall that's available to you. This is the IOE, because if you think about
it, you placed the call to an other person, wich is an interaction between two
people : People to people. Because of that, you entered an address into you GPS
in your car, this is an interaction between a person and a machine, right it's
a people to machine type of interaction. As the mall computer was making a call
of the best parking spot for you, it needed to rely on a bunch of data on the
weather, on the city itself, on the parking spot that were actually open for
you. So that's the data, right? You're using the data to do that. And this is
all possible because it relies on comunications protocols and applications and
all kinds of structures details that are going on the background. That's what
we call the process. So this is the long answers, I used kind of an exemple,
but that's the IOE. That's exactly a way to interact to connect people, things
processus and data.

Sounds awefully complex, sounds complex, sounds like there is a lot of
interactions, there is a lot of things going on. it makes me wonder, I mean,
part of value of the internet right now is just it's the ubiquity of it. And so
It kind of make me wonder as we talk about the internet of everything, while
you, Rodrigo, you're really lining out kind of , you know , the opportunity or
the potential of it, you know, I find myself wondering, you know, how big of a
deal is it  really ? You know Bob inside of the things that you've been
researching, the things that you understand, you know, what can you land in an
answer to that question of how big of how big of a deal is the internet of
Everything ?

Well, I my humble opinion, it's a mass of big deal, you know when we think of
the internet of everything, I think right now, we're at the very tip of an
iceberg or at ,like, the beginning of an avalanche. And I think, back to the
early 90's when I remember seeing on the news they where talking about this
thing called the internet and something called the world wide  web and you know
, and we'd be able to communicate with people around the world and easily and
such and I remember at the time thinking "Waw ! this is gonna really cool but
how big is it going to get ?", And you know, within a matter of years, no five
year later, ten years later, like the internet has now become something that we
all use and think as something we should have available to us. The UN said that
the internet is now something that it's a vital right for humans to have. And
you know, consider as well like cellphones or phones 30 the years ago you just
talked to people and 15 years ago cellphones you could text. But take what your
smartphone can do now. You know, it's, it can connect all kinds of things, you
can research all kind of things, it connect to your car, it connect to like, at
home I have a thermostat where it's controlled, I can control it with my phone.
It's all connected ! Companies use , you know use the, manage their energy more
efficiently as well, like, ?helium? ventilation systems in buildings before all
automatic . But now it's all automated and connected to the networks, so a
company can adjust, you know, temperatures more efficiently, they can close
light more efficiently and so on so forth.

Well I recognise what you are talking about, I mean like lot of things beeing
connected. A question I find myself asking as the release the internet of
everything, you know, while i've recogniezed the value and the savings that I
have personnaly benefited from the internet in the past phases of the internet.
You know as I think of the internet of Everything, i'm looking for where does
it add value to my life, how does it improve my life, our lives, everybody's
lives. Bernadette, I am wondering if you know kind of based of the things that
you've been researching as well and conducting analysis against. Where are you
finding that the internet of everything adds value ?

The first thing that comes to minds that I've been looking at is solving health
problems. There are millions of people in the world who lack access to
specialist. Using new technologies and telehealth and cloud, we could actually
put specialist in front of those people and they can remoteley connect to
specialist and doctors using network medical devices and get opinions and so
on. Another area is improving farming and irrigation, you know to help feed the
world. monitoring animals and using sensors to provide the appropriate
irrigation and conserve water. And one of the big areas is that as of now more
than half of the world's population lives in our near major urban areas. As
this increases it's going to cause an increadible stress on cities on their
infrastructure, on their services. and a great exemple is when governements
incorporates the internet of everything technology to deal with these
challenges that are faced by cities. Barcelona is that has embraced this
internet of everything by becoming a smart connected city and in the course
there is a great video about barcelona showing how they have become a smart
city and how that is improving the life of its citizens. Solutions such as
energy efficient lightening and it's not only just lighting but it has sensors
that senses motions around it so that it can sense traffic and this really
reduces crime  by increasing the intensity of light as it noticies motions.
They have also implemented parking sensors so that connect to your smartphone
so that people can park more efficiently because it is beeing found that 30%
congestion is caused by people driving around looking for parking spot.

That's amazing, I don't know how many time I've found myself driving in
circles.

I know, I'm doing it all the time. The other thing I really like is that they
have implemented sensors on garbage cans so that they send a signal when
they're full, so we don't have to waste services picking up the garbage. They
have smart transportations, smart bus stops, so you can go to the bus stop and
say "Yea, I'm looking for/ When is my bus going to get here", click on the
screen and while you're waiting you can find out about entertainement in the
area. And Wifi is available in the city even in the subway. So, you know, this
has really made Barcelona a very wonderful place to live.

So it's like you had all these services that used to be kind of isolated
(insulated ?) provided in sideloads, you know, you had your tracers, you had,
you know, you had street lighting, you had your wifi you had your
transportations services. But now rather than all those things kind of working
in sideloads, they're all kind of comming together, they're presempting some
?inovation?. It's more of an unified service provided by the city. That's more
relevent to me and what I'm doing as an inividual inside of the city. It's like
it's custom taillored for me. it's like, you know, the trash service is
organized around my schedule, the lighting it's organised around my schedule,
transportation, organized around my schedule. Something very very different.
It's not me as individual needing to adapt to the city services shedules, but
it's almost like the city is providing a much, more personnalized service
organized around me but, so, at the same time it's also more efficient.You
know, they're not using energy, they're not using resources where they don't
need to be used. As we talked about this innerconnection of everything, you
know, it's really easy for me to think abour the sideloads and how to make
think work, how to connect things to provide a certain service. You know, how
to get the trash service running by itself, how to get the transportation
running by itself. But as we talk about inner connecting all of these things,
you know, that, to me is what we eluded to earlier in the call. It's just, it
's impressive level of complexity, with a lot of details that go into it. And
so I'm wondering as we look at this IOE opportunity, you know, how do we handle
challenges, What are the attributes and the caracteristics. You know, the
?ideal?, if you will, that give us kind of control over how we implement IOE
solutions. You know, What are the, how do we make it tengible so that we can be
in control of it and implement it. And Dane, I am wondering if you can come in
on that kind of some of your experience just in the round of networking.

The curiculum, the internet of everything talks about 4 things in particular
and that is People that are involved, the processes, the data and the things.
So it's much bigger than just the things.

So yea, those are the four things rodrigo kind of refered to as well. So inside
of the course it explicitely calls out : People, processes, data and things as
kind of the foundational elements components or pillars if you will of the IOE.
Bernadette, can you in a little bit on the people aspect, the people pillar on
the IOE.

Sure, Jeremy, my thing (thinking ?) it's because the people who ultimately will
take all this information that's beeing drive from the interation betwen the
other pillars wich are processes, data and things. And they'll make and form
decisions that will improve their lives or the lives of others. It's really
people that provide the intelligence and the inside to take all of that
information, and there is a lot of it out there that  were exposed to and make
an usefull solution. You know one of the things that i've been looking at, I
found fascionating is all of there wearable sensors that wille allow us to
acess real time about our helth. And that allows us to make a decision about
how we'll be going to do things that day. Should I have my work out ? Should I
avoid that donut ? And much more serious things as well of course, we can use
those to deal with serious illness and like diabetus and heart diseases.

Yea, listening to you talk abot people it, I recall a  quote from John
chambers, where, you know, he was asked something effective, what is the IOE
about ? his response , this is not about technology at all, but it's about how
we change peoples lives. So it seems like, you know, the IOE is really ?routed?
first in , you know, where is that value, where is that social impact or
benefit that comes as a result of ?now? our ability to connect all these
disparate things, connecting the unconnected, if you will. But it seems like
the people beeing served is one aspect, but then, you know, again Rodrigo had
eluded to processes and you know we've definitely talked about it a little bit
in the context of this conversation and, you know processes beeing called out
by Cisco and the definition of IOE is one of those core pillars. Describe that
a little bit for me to end, you know, what is processes in this context.

Processes is pretty much the thing that interconnects the people the data and
the things. The processes is the innerconnection of those three things and, in
the curiculum it defines the processes as the ability to deliver the right data
to the right person or thing, or device, at the right time. And that's really
what the process piece is. It's how that data in the internet of everything,
how it flows, how it's beeing utilized. The processes are the integration
piece, they facilitate an intergration between people wich the curiculum
defines as a people to peolpe connection, so people exchanging data with other
people wheter it's through a social networking, applications over the internet
or something like that and then machine to people, so people recieving real
time data over the internet to their smartphone or their smartwatch or some
type of device and then also machine to machine, so we have machines, we have
smart devices, we have smart sensor in the home, we have smart sensor in the
field, in industie, in retail, commercial uses and those devices are picking up
information that wasn't capable before, but today, we do have the capabilities,
with the advances in technologies, the advances in computers, the advances in
the amount of storage of data that we can do, with the fact that the internet
is now so much more expensive with cloud computing. So those connections,
machne to machinr, machine to people, and people to people are more relevent
today, given that this is the right time-place because our technology has
advanced so far that we can now, we can take in this data from everywhere and
we can process it, we can analyze it. So the process is really, that's what it
does, it brings the people, the data and the things together.

So, as we talked about the internet of everything and people beeing the
ultimate beneficiary of the opportunity and what it represents and they are
realizing those benefits through new processes that we're able to take
advantage of the information that is now available. So as we talked about
information, I've heard the term data, we talked about the data as one of these
pillars and the also I heard earlier the term big data in that context if you
guys could come and just a little bit on what is data in the context of IOE and
why is it such a big deal.

I can take that one, Jeremey, it's my favorite. Right so, this is actually a
very important point that you make Jeremy, when it come to this pillar, to the
data pillar it's so much data that it's even hard to wrap your ?head? around
right ? You see, the idea is that if you have the data that its has enough
volume, wich you mentioned it has enough velocity, that you also mentionned,
and it's all types of data where we call the variaty. This is conssidered to be
the big data, if we go back, just to explain a little bit the Vs of the big
data, it says the volume amount of data, if you're trying, if you're talking
about looking at a specific event, you're monitoring an event, such as the
weather, it's a lot of informations, so the volume of the data is really high,
you have a lot of data to take care of, to process, right ? it's a lot of data
comming at you very high speed so you have to be able to handle that. Network
itself has to be handle to handle that, and when I say the network I'm talking
about routers, I'm talking about the layer to switches, yea, I'm talking about
the firewalls, I'm talking about the entire network really as a whole has to be
able to process and has to be able to handle all this data that is coming at
you very fast. The last V is the variety, so the data comming to you does not
necesserly has a specific type a specific way or a specific shape right ? You
can be looking at pictures, you can be looking at entries, you can be looking
at text you can be looking at some log files comming from a server; I mean, the
data doesn't really, does not necessarly comes at you in a specific form so
this is what (why?) we mean by saying the variaty of this data. I'm thinking
2012 an organisation online even added a fourth V with their calling Veracity.

I've never heard that term before, I haven't  heard veracity before, so in
listening wath you describe it's essencially the thrust ???? of the big data ?

That's right

So we talked about people, the beneficiaries of the IOE at the same time
contributors and producers as well as consumers inside of it. We've talked
about how processes is it's changes in process and process inside of the IOE
that makes it happen. And we've talked about data is kind of the key resource
in what is happening, what process can take advantage of. In a conversation
around data, you know, we're talking about a lot of data, a lot of information
and we've commented a few times on like sensors and things when we're talking
about things here, and we're talking about the internet of things and we talked
about how the internet of everything will take advantage of the internet of
things. What are things cause it sounds like we're talking about , you know,
you're talking about sensors that you put into the ground, you know, what are
things.

I can answer that, Jeremy, things have been around for a while, you know,
you've already mentionned iPad and smartphones and computers. We all know that
that connects, it's not something new. But what we're talking about here when
we say the internet of things it's about the stuff that we didn't connect
before it's connecting the unconnected and making them accessible over a
network. So the internet of things , and I should mention that a lot of people
mistake , they say the internet of everything when they mean the internet of
things and vice-verca but the internet of things specifficaly refers to those
object that we can attach sensors to and we can collect real time data and make
decisions based on that. So you're talking about, like, my coffee cup sitting
right here ? This is gonna get connected ? You can if you want to, if you want
to measure the temperature and make sure that it's too hot right now, I want my
coffe cup to talk to my smartphone to tell me when the temperature reaches a
certain temperatures and that's when you want to drink it you could do that !
Now I wanted to tell somebody else that they need to come and give me some
coffee. Yhea sure ! That's what I was gonna say, you can do even better, you
can measure how much of the coffee is left in the cup and tell your coffee
maker to get you a new pot cause you're out of coffee. That totally makes
sense, I saw, I remember seeing an advertisement for a moisture sensor that
goes into a baby's diaper and it sends a tweet to a phone that tells a, well, I
hope, its parents or something that they need to change their childs diaper and
that just blows my mind and it's so that idea seems so expensive to me but I
guess what we're talking about is that this stuff isn't that expensive
anymore.

That's it, I don't now if you've heard of Moore's law, I know we mentionned
Moore's law in the course but moore's law basically talks about the
microprocessor doubling in power and reducing in cost in term of how much we
pay for them and you know they make chips now that would fit on the end of your
finger, it's a sensor chip they could sense temperatur, moisture, like you said
and it also has wifi, and you know, how much do you thing you'd pay for a chip
like that ? You know initially when someone asked me that was like hundred, two
hundred dollars, but they make them now for 99 cents. You know so these are
thing that you can attach on almost anything and you can retrieve that data to
do someting with it. And the thing that blows So you mentionned Moor's law,
it's 99cts like, say, now give it three years and it's you know how much then
?

Penies !

And the thing that blows me away right now is that it's estimated that only one
% of things are connected right now, there is still 99% of things that we could
connect. Not to say that we need to connect everything, but there is still a
lot of stuff that's out there that we can connect and it's been predicted by
the year 2020 that we're gonna have 50 billions devices that are connected to
the internet. Now that is in my opinion mind blowing.

This has been fantastic and I wanna thanks everybody here who has provided
input and helped explain, you know, what is the internet of everything, what is
this opportunity. The internet of everything takes into account or takes
advantage of 4 key pillars people, primary beneficiaries of it facilitated by
processes that takes into account data that is generated by things. And so it's
those 4 pillars people processes data and things that are kind of the key
attributes or the handholds if you will, the components of the internet of
everything that help us realize this value.

Fascinating stuff ! I'd like to thanks all of ou guys, Bernadette, Bob, dane,
rodrigo for joining me on this podcast. We hope for you guys, our audiance,
that you're intrigued and inspired to investigate the internet of everything
and how it can change the way you work, live, play, and learn, so until next
time.
Thanks for listening !
