This is Jeremy Creech for Cisco Systems and you're listening to the second in a serie
of podcast introducing the Internet of everything or as we call it the IoE
This pocast serie is a companion to the Cisco networking Academy's introduction to
the IoE course and my guest today are joining me again from the first episode
Rodrigo Floriano, Dan Albragetti, Bob Fishon and Bernadette O'Brian.
In our previous show we answered the question you know, what the heck is the
IOE.Today I'm looking forward to exploring this more as we talked about connecting the
unconnected. So Roderigo in the last show I remember kind of presenting the possibility
of a sensor in my coffee cup that alerts someone to come and fill it, 'cause,
you know, it's not gonna be me how fill it, after all, you know, I should know if it's
empty right ? But if somebody can come fill my cup for me. But my question is
the IoE really about having, let say, my alarm clock tell a coffee pot to brew some more
joe ?

Yea that's just like one example of the IoE, right, and the IoE is actually that
and much much more, once we managed to wrap our heads around the fact that we
can have things now talking to each other and working to make our life's
a more efficient and actually more optimized rights we realize that the
possibilities are really endless in fact there is a video in the course, I
think it's page 3.1.1.1 that is talking about that subject I'm sorry if I am spoiling
the video for anybody but actually let me ask a question. Hey Bob how many
devices that you have in your home right now they are conected to the Internet
?Yeah

Oh Goss there is all kinds ! In my home and in, like in a lot of other homes and
typically there will connecting using a wireless or two a wireless router but,
you know, we can have, you know, most families have computers laptops smart
phones tablets a gaming consoles like an Xbox. But we also have like smart TVs,
Apple TV and these are all examples of machine to people communication. There
is also, you know,  machine to machine connections that we have in our homes
for example my wife and I are on a get fit program right now so, you know,she
want me to lose weight so she got me a pedometer and we
got a weight scale that collects data and wirelessly sends data the servers in
the cloud and then we can use our iPhones and iPads the download or to look
at the information to see how good or ,you know, how bad were doing and to see if
her health plan is working. And there's other examples like recently we got a
nest thermostat and it's another example of machine to machine to communications
and now -these- there is whole system, I don't know of some of you folks are
aware of this is a whole system like the nest thermostat can also connect with smoke
alarms and CO2 detectors and if you want to get your car to talk to
to the nest thermostat to the turn it on when you're on your way home. And one
of the things that I noticed as well, I was on their website the other day they
have this thing called life affects, a lightbulb for people that are hearing
impaired so if there is an emergency it'll have a red light flashing
to conform how, you know, something, they should leave the home such.

How is all this stuff connected then, how is it communicating.

Whaarrraaa, I don't know how deep you want me to go here so I'll keep a low
light but actually the course does a really nice job covering
this and explains this in more details. I think it's chapter 3 or such. But back to the
home we either connect wirelessly or with a wired connection so a wired connection
would be your typical ethernet cable and laptop to the router you can even use
your existing power lines now to extend your wireless network so if you're
getting a bad connection in part of a home you just plug the other device into
the wall socket your regular electoral socket and it extends your wireless
connectivity. And then there is the wireless aspect of it as well and for that
we're usually talking about 802.11 Wi-Fi standards so for example 802.11n or g
or the newer 802.11ac standards. But you know what's really
mind-boggling is that we have all of these device that can connect but it's how
they talks, so that's the other part of how to communicate it's the whole aspect of
standards and in such. And in networking we call that protocols, devices talk to each
other and they need to agree on sets of rules and such just like we do
when we talk to each other and, you know, I have to say that the course again does a
really good job of covering this information how things Do connect

That's great Bob about, you know, how everything is connected in our house but what stuff outside
of our house we've been hearing in the course about all the sensors that are
outside that are in our cars that are in factories and RFID's etc. What about
these non-IP enabled devices how to those communicate ?

Well it's interesting because
the idea right now of these smart sensors and the fact that we have all these
IP enabled devices that are sensors we also have sensors that are non-IP
enabled a lot of the very low power wireless sensors that are out there use
protocols that are so small in the power usage, it's so small and the bandwidth is
so small that they're not always capable of running IP addressing so some of
those devices are using proprietary protocols at layer 2 and layer 3 to
communicate to controllers and then the controller is the device that will be
IP enabled that will then communicate to the cloud or to the network at large.
So many sensors are not IP enabled right now you have millions of devices that
had been deployed for instance in the home and a lot of those devices need a
controller to send information to that is IP enabled to talk and those
protocols it's pretty interesting right now there's a huge kind of battle going
over this very issue we have protocols like ZigBee which are
proprietary and don't really want to talk or communicate using the TCP/IP stack
in then you have other protocols like six low wireless PAN which is an IPv6
low power wireless protocol that basically is open source and nonproprietary and
works with the GPL. So there's a battle kind of going on right now whether
we're gonna have these sensors which will be IP enabled and mainly IPv6 enabled
'cause if you think about it if we're gonna connect billions of devices in the next six years
we're gonna need addressing for those devices and it's not gonna be IPv4, it's
gonna be IPv6.

So let me make sure I understand here. Dan, you had elluded to layers 2 and layers
3, which with my networking background, I have some familiarity with, that's the
OSI networking model and layer 2 and layer 3 dealing with how things connect
and how they communicate or the protocols that they would uses is what Bob was
elluding to earlier.

And in the Internet today and we talk about the IP
addressing which is, you know, you have to have a source and a destination for two
things to communicat or to talk to one another. Currently, you know, IPv4 is in
large part what is used to do that. Now, I've heard you talk about IPv6 and my
understanding is that is a new spectrum of addresses that facilitates a
much larger pool of potential addresses than what is presently available with
IPv4. The issue is that we're starting to come/ We're saturating the pool of
available addresses out of IPv4. So when you talk about IPv6 and we talk
about connecting the unconnected, you know, now we're talking about RFIDs,
sensors,
actuators all. You know just a huge number, you know, approaching billions more things getting
connected to the Internet. The mechanisms that facilitate that connection
requires the ability to scale, hence things like IPv6. Do I have the right ?

Absolutely, the IPv6 address space is what's going to be used on moving forward
to connect all these billions of devices that are now being be online. But not
only that, the IPv6 header, the way the IPv6 packet is built it has options
built-in for security, it's streamlined and so it's pretty
interesting for those who are hesitant on IPv6 the Internet of everything is
definitely a huge field in which IPv6 is going to roll out. And we already see
it in these low powered wireless sensors that are now available and,

And that's kind of what you were referring to with, like, the six low PAN. But
then you talked about/ there is also another group that advocating no IP at all
with with zigBee, is that correct ?

That's correct, the ZigBee protocols already been implemented across
millions of devices mainly in home area networks in California and so they
don't want to/.I think they're hesitant to change but the part of the
problem was when zigBee protocol was developed they were trying to find a
solution and they felt that the TCP/IP protocol stack was too big, basically too
much information for the type of low-power sensors that are communicating. So we
have, you know, many sensors in the field that are non-IP enabled devices that have
to talk to a controller which is almost like the command center that then
gathers the information from the sensors and so that is oftentimes a
proprietary, non-Internet-based protocol.

Ok.

But a lot of people are moving away or there is a push to move away from zigBee
toward something that would be readily Internet available.

Allright, so there is a couple different flavors anyway. One where
you have direct Internet connectivity all the way to the sensor and the other
where, you know, there is kind of go-between this controller if you will.

Right, and either way
presents also a security challenge for those of us who are interested in security
because you don't want someone to be able to take control of devices in your
home network you know you have point-of-sale machines you have coke machines
with the credit card readers all those devices now if their internet-enabled
become a security risk from that perspective.

It makes me think back to, you know, in
the first episode we talked about the pillars of the IoE being the people, the
things and the processes but, you know, a big part of that was data. And, you
know, I'm really starting to see the case here for the sheer amount of data that can
start to be generated by, you know, thousands and millions billions more things getting
connected. And with that data comes the need to be able to analyze process and
compute against that volume of data. How are, how do we handle that, you know,
where do we handle ?

I'm gonna take a stab at answering that one Jeremy, and I really
like the way the course approaches this by looking at past present and future
computing models because, you know, as we just said earlier it is about scaling to deal
with this and in the past businesses used a client/server computing model. You
know, meaning that they utilized on-site centralized servers to provide services and
storage etc. to their users and their organization but that's not going to
work with the amount of data were talking about you know it's just simply
not the computing model of choice anymore. The rapid expansion of the Internet
as more people and more things become connected, the huge increase in
geographically dispersed mobile users, simply the massive amounts of data that
are being generated have fueled the move to cloud computing. Cloud computing
allows businesses and individuals to subscribe to those services using a
network of servers that are located outside of the organization and access
trough the Internet. So these network servers provide high-speed intensive computing
capabilities that we're going to need and that are definitely beyond the scope of
many businesses currently. So, that's the move, that's  where most
businesses are going to deal with this. But also, we've got the issue of some
of this data that we're getting him is time sensitive, you know, and we need to analyze it
and act upon that feedback that were getting from sensors very quickly and
having to send the data all the way to the cloud and then back to the local
network to get those decisions made can be just to timely. So a variation of
Cloud computing called fog computing is being employed to solve this issue. This
fog computing brings the distributed service to the edge of the
network so we can do that analysis closer to home. Saves time and also add
security, so someof that/ I mean that sensitive information can be kept within
the organization. In the course the example of the smart traffic light system is
used  to demonstrate an application of fog computing so the traffic
lights use sensors to detect pedestrians traffic patterns and even weather
condition that. The smart traffic light system then uses local fog computing to
do real time analysis right there and then of that data from the sensors to
make immediate decisions like, it can coordinate with other traffic lights in
the neighborhood by adjusting the signal cycles, you know, because of heavy
traffic in the area or light traffic whatever it may be and even road
conditions. So I think the fog computing really brings the idea of localizing
some of this analysis and keeping it right within the network and on the edge
of the network.

So listening to you talk about that, Bernadette, so smart traffic lights
are able to take advantage of fog computing. Thereby taking advantage of the
data that is generated by those sensors when it's most valuable.But an
extension of that into the cloud might be looking over the historical record of
what those sensors have gathered over time kind of a longitudinal analysis to
be able to find what are those bigger larger trends if you will that they can
then take into future city planning, street planning or whatever. You lnow, maybe
even future adjustments to whatever the algorithms are being used for the
real-time data is being collected inside the smart traffic light system at the
fog level. Is that kind of like how the to might play together ?

Exactly you've got it just right

I really like the smart traffic light example 'cause I'm thinking
back to what we discussed and in our previous edpisode, episode one, you know
and when we talked
about the IoE, and we talked about the pillars of the IoE being the people data
process and things and it's interesting how the smart traffic light system kind
of
pulls it all together. Talking about how to make things/ how to optimize traffic
how to make things more efficient more safe and having that benefit to the
people and doing that by leveraging all of these things, those things being the
sensors that are detecting what is the traffic, detecting what are the environmental
variables and then taking into account all that data to determine what is the
best most efficient way to to make use of that system to benefit the people and
that's all being facilitated by the process it makes me think back to
inside of chapter 1 there was a story of the connected which really kind of
brought to life, you know, how some of this technology is really impacting people's
lives. You know we talked about like in the Barcelona example with the parking
lots we talk about, you know/ and just thinking about the parking, you know, adjusting
parking inside a large city I can start to think about all the other different
types of government services or public services that happen that the IoE can
start to benefit. I wonder among you guys the are there any other stories any
other examples that you can think of where like the smart traffic light system,
other things that you've experienced at this point are there things that
you've heard of the content to lend some more light on what the benefit is of
the IoE

The curriculum mentions how smart sensors are used in an airport and
how let's say a jet engine generates terabytes and terabytes of data just
incredible amounts within such a short time period. In as short as 30 minutes,
hundreds
of terabytes of data. And that data is going to need to be collected and
analyzed. And the Internet of everything makes that possible, the fact that all these
companies can now have real-time data. I experience it when I'm purchasing
something online and then I want to track that package and I were using UPS and I
not enjoy seeing you know where my/ where that package is, what post office box
it's leaving from what truck it's on. I enjoy ordering my pizza knowing that
it's five minutes away.

And I think it also ended up talking about this fog idea. It also
makes sense that if you are able to process and extract information that you
needed from background data right spot can save a lot of money, 'cause now you
don't have to
store, you don't have to move it, you don't have to worry about that data anymore it's
already, you know, you took the information that you needed out of it, it's now it's
useless, you know, just keep the information/ it's possibly much smaller than the actual
raw data. So, yeah, it makes total sense to move towards this kind of fog
computing

You know, it makes me think of/ there is a lot of other articles that I've been
reading. You know, once I remember reading something about in the mining industry how there's these
smart connected mining's machines that are able to coordinate with
other types of equipment just improve the mining efficiency and then they're seeing just
huge gains in the productivity which is reducing the cost associated with raw
resources. An other example that comes to mind is Tesla with her cars and I
remember seeing an article recently around a Tesla vehicle that, you know, that
needed repairs is able to, you know, ?autonomously? call for, you know, whatever those repairs
are whether it was a software download or it just need to send a/ some sort of
notification to the customer saying: "Hey we're gonna/ Tesla's gonna send somebody to come
and pick up your car for you take it to the facility for the repairs are needed
and then bring it back to you". And these are the kinds of things that are just
starting to be realized with the with the Internet of everything. I remember another
thing that comes to mind is, you know, where I live, you know, we're getting into renewable
resources of energy,  wind turbines. And with that, you know, we're talking about smart
wind turbines and these are wind turbines that are, you know,/ I don't know if
you've seen
those wind turbine farms, but it's just like massive areas with giant wind turbines
just all spinning together. But talking about how they're networking those together and
using software so that they can adjust the blades between all of these
different wind turbines so that they can minimize the impact that they have on
one another and improve their efficiency together as a whole. So now it's not just
one these wind turbines operating in isolation of the other ones but now
it's a networked system generating power from renewable resource
together. Which, you know, again, it improves the productivity and efficiency getting
more for less. It makes me think of another thing that I saw not too long ago
which was a/ there was like a tennis racket handle, even,/ I mean, I'm covering the
spectrum of things from mining to cars to wind turbines to now I am a tennis
player or racquetball player and I want the technology to be able to know, you
know,
they put sensors inside of a racket and then it has connectivity to your mobile
device and is able to track and analyze, you know, how you play the game over time
and give you tips on how to better leverage your racket, how to better leverage
your swing, how to put more speed on the ball how to put better spent on the
ball. You known, and these are the types of things that the IoE is
realizing and it covers, you know, that gambit that I just talked about all way
from, you know, massive mining operation, you know, all the way to the racket
that it's in my hand it's a fascinating time, fascinating thing to think about.

I was reading today about wireless sensor network projects that are being done with Arduino's
so small microcomputers and small chips that can run wireless networks and are
actually creating home networks using TCP/IP version 6 or IPv6 network
stacks and it's pretty interesting so it's not just something that's I think
gonna
come down from companies and corporations to us but also home users are able to
play with this technology right now with some of these small systems hobbyist
kids there playing with the raspberry pie, with the Arduino and they're working
with six low wireless PAN and they're working with these 802.15 Bluetooth style
networks to create their own sensors so it's going to be something that
develops I think rather really quickly.

I was also reading today about/ there's an article on the web about a country that looked at shipments that
came in for a product and I'm not gonna say which countries but these
products were teapots and when they looked at the manifest it showed one weight
and then when they when they weighed him again it/ that showed a different
weight and they took apart these teapots and found  wireless devices wireless
chips in the teapots and when they looked at it, they claim that the
wireless chips in the teapots were looking for wireless networks in the home
and distributing malware in the home. So we could have a security situation
where, you know, where there's already wireless sensors in your home in your
common devices, that potentially could be a security risk.

Yeah it's the dark side of the IoE, I guess.

I mean, you might/ it's a scary thought but, yeah, your refrigerator could be
hacking your wireless network at home right now.

Well Yeah, and then you get home from work and you realize that your fridges
has been turned off and there's water everywhere and someone did a denial of
service in your fridge. How about that ?

Wow, so I guess the big question here is how do we secure all the stuff. You know that'd
be a good topic for another podcast I think.

Definitely I think that's something that we'll have comming up.
Well I'd like to thanks everybody for joining us on the podcast today. I've really
enjoyed the conversation talking about what all the possibilities are from
how an alarm clock and the coffee pot can work together to how these things connect inside of
your house, how things communicate together, how they/ how the computing works
with the clouds and fog and 'are just fantastic conversation and kind of
leading into what
are some of the concerns, you know, security and I'm looking forward to talking
about that in subsequent
podcasts.
Thanks for listening.