Hello, this is Jeremy Creech for Cisco Systems and you're listening to the
fourth of a
series of podcast introducing the Internet of everything. This podcast series is a
companion to the Cisco networking Academy's introduction to the IOE course and
joining me again today from previous episodes is Dan Albaghetti Bob Fishon
Rodrigo Floriano and Bernadette O'Brian.
In past episodes we talked about what the
IOE is how it works and we've also talked about what the benefit is to people
but as we've had these conversations we've also kind of discovered or revealed
that there are some concerns around security and privacy which is the topic for
today's conversation. And so Roderigo I wanted to kind of direct this first
question to you which is, you know, security is always a concern when we're dealing
with technology, especially prevalent with current events going on here as
of late. What are some of these concerns can you kind of describe that for us ?

Yes sure. The main problem I think it is because when we are talking about the
IOE we have these devices pretty much everywhere right ? You can be wearing
them,
they can be in your car, they can be in your home they can be at work. So people have some concerns
related to some exploitation of these devices. Let's say if you have in your home
a security system with a set of cameras and someone manages to
get a hold of that, of, you know, the hacker attacks it and now it's taking care
of your cameras right looking through your cameras and it takes over, now those
cameras can be used against you, that/ the entire system can be used against
you. So this is kind of, you know, the type of concerned that people
have. On top of that concern I believe there is also a psychological
effect, where people may think that, you know, because of the IOE because as I
said, it's everywhere, now they're beeing monitored they're beeing watched at
all times so if you walk
into a store the store may wanna know where you are inside that store, what
kind of shopping you are doing to help you in the future, you know, to be more
agile to you. But that fact that you're being watched and you know that
you'll be monitored it doesn't really go very well with some people.
Now in the other hand because if something goes wrong in a situation like that,
the reputation of the company can be seriously hurt, right ? We have some
examples I'm sure we're gonna be talking about this in this podcast, but the
case that have
happened last year with target, they lost a number of cards like millions
and millions of card numbers from their customers and I am sure that
people that got hurt because of that will not forget that for this year's
holiday shopping season, right ? So from from the company's aspect it's also
important to make sure that these things are safe because their reputation is on
the line.

Yha, it was a frustrating experience for me I went through two new card
issues as a result of target and Home Depot. I guess

See there you go

Yea, it's frustrating, you know, you bring  up a really good point Roderigo
with regards to kind of/
reasons to be concerned, why we need the security. What I'm wondering is,
Bernadette I know you've done some kind of research into this, you know, how do
we implement the security in the IOE context ? Where does security reside ?

Well, the course has a whole module dedicated to just that question, security and
the Internet of everything. And John Stewart, chief security officer at Cisco,
explained in a video presentation the answer to that, you know, how security/
how it should be and must be included in the Internet of everything. He emphasizes
that as more and more devices are connected, network administrators and cyber
security experts have to be proactive and ensure that these potentially
nonsecure devices like sensors actuators smart devices etc. are secure. And we
hear every
day, as we've just heard from Roderigo, you know, how our information is being
stolen, so, vigilance
by these companies as people process data and things all become connected to
the IOE, is essential. He also points out that securing all these connections
come into a network is going to require adaptable and dynamic solutions. So it's
about the network and it's not just about securing the individual devices it's
about integrating the security throughout the network.You know, I've been looking
at their ??? and he also talks about this to John Stewart, that Cisco is taking
a leadership role in dealing with this issue in the Internet of everything.
They're
also collaborating with other businesses because you know as we seen it's
important to these businesses to be prepared and to be proactive. It's a
pressing issue,
because as devices and people are connecting at this phenomenal rate 50 billion
connections are going to be happening within the next 10 years, it's amazing.
You know, one of the things that is beeing a bit of an issue too, is that we've got to prepare the
experts/ we've got to prepare expertes, so they can deal with this. Cisco announced in
October 2014 that they formed an industry talent consortium made up of
businesses recruiters and educational institutions to help develop the
skills that are required to cope with this rapid increase in connected devices
and particularly to address security and privacy issues.

When it comes to the
IOE that's another problem with the new thing among the bad guys now,
the hackers, now, which is going for the devices that are not exactly
computers.
they are but not in the way we know. Let me try to explain this. When you're
talking about the computer, right ?, your PC, your phone, your tablet, they're
running OSs,
there running probably a version of Windows or Mac OS or android or IOS, Apple's
iOS, right ? These are the big players in the market and the beauty is people have
been working on this systems for a while now and they're designed to be
updated.
So, if for some reason someone finds a way, an illegal way into these systems
the companies responsible for the systems have teams and teams of people ready
to jump in and prepare an update. So to fix that point where the bad guys could
enter, right, that point that could be exploited and to gain illegal access to the
system. But when we're talking about the IOE these devices are/ it could be your TV
it could be your coffeemaker as we mentioned in earlier podcast. It could be
your car and most of the times these devices will not be running in the ways
that have been in the market for as long as these main players that we were talking
about earlier. So what I'm trying to say is if you are talking about your car,
your cars is running an OS which probably is not going to be called in operating
systems, it's probably gonna be called firmware. It's running the software that may not be
designed to be updated. If you remember back in 2012 I believe there was a virus
called Stuxnet.

Yeah.

Remember that ?

Yes, related to an attack on Iran nuclear material generation.

That's exactly right. And the hackers, the bad guys what they did was to
target the machines running side (inside?) this power plants. And the thing is these
machines are a little bit old and they run a very specific version of a
system that  it's not easy to upgrade. So once those
machines were compromised there was nothing really to be done other than toss
them away and buy new machines. We're talking about a power plant, they have
thousands and thousands of those things all over the Power plant.

Right.

So it shut down. There is nothing to be done, you have to shut it down.

And so, you're talking about these logic circuits that are inside these
machines. These logic boards are
in everything that we have. You know, you gave the example of the car, you
gave the example that stuxnet attack, but we talked about, you know, the TVs, the
refrigerators,...

You name it, it's everywhere right ?

Everything. And so this
makes that risk significantly larger. The potential risks to devices that can be
compromised has escalated exponentially.

Well, I think that's really interesting
because the Internet of everything presents a unique security challenge based on
some of the things Rod was talking about when he talked about operating
systems,
embedded operating systems or firmware, operating systems are not necessarily
gonna be updated. And right now we have these devices that are now infiltrating
into the home automating things for us, we have smart sensors in our cars and
all these vehicles but a lot of it is proprietary technology so from the
security experts point of view it's pretty difficult to all of a sudden update
and patch all of these different systems that are not even necessarily IP
address enabled systems. They are not traditional computers as Roderigo was
saying. So that presents a huge security challenges, you know, do I have the
firmware on the temperature sensors on my house sufficiently updated and
patched. You're not gonna be presented with an update warning to your system tray
in your Windows operating system telling you that has to happen
because is not a traditional IP enabled device.

So as we presents these security
challenges and along those lines Cisco has a great white paper on the web right
now on security intelligence. And one of the topics they talk about are these
dark spaces on the network these blind spots that the traditional security
person is not necessarily even thinking about because maybe they're not IP
enabled devices right and these are places that you're not used to thinking
about and devices in the Internet of everything that you're not used to
thinking about. Things like printers or sensors or just devices that are now
becoming smart and are coming online but yet are not traditional, it's not like your
operating system where you have the antivirus tool necessarily and it makes it really
easy, you know, I login and I update my antivirus and I run a scan. Well the Internet
of everything is going to be adding so many more devices and it's not always be
that simple. The curriculum talks about by the year 2020 we're gonna have 50 billion
more devices connected to the Internet. Now that's connected devices IP enabled
were IPv6 enabled devices but what about all the devices that are not even
going to be connected to the Internet but yet are still networked and maybe
have wireless networks and are in our homes ? So we still have to be present to
that, we have to think about security risks that have not even presented
themselves yet and that's difficult. So yeah definitely difficulty with patching and
updating. And Bernadette brought up a point that Cisco is definitely leading the
way, one of the things that this white paper talks about is the fact that we're
going to need, and what is already there right now, but basically global data and
threat analytics, kind of the eye in the sky type of service so that our network
devices will go out onto the Internet and have constant signature updates and
constant patches and constant scanning of behavior-based analytics or
behavior-based signatures on our network devices whether their wireless and
where ever
they are to look for lapses in security or authentication or access break
break-ins things like that. So the Internet of everything really presents an
expanded attack surface, because we're gonna have all these things that are going to
be interconnected and it's gonna present huge challenge.

You're making a really
interesting point. As I think about it, as I think about my home for example it used to
be that, you know, I just had one PC in the home. But now, you know, I find/
it's like a
headache in my household when I think about the number of devices and see what
each of my children, four children, have a computer, my wife has a computer, I have
a computer there is what? Three iPads, four iPhones. And when it's time to update
and run around and keep up with all the stuff I mean seriously I feel like I'm
looking around for what I need to install a server so I can do a managed kind
of security distribution program just in my household. And now you start telling
me about, well, we're gonna connect some TVs we're gonna connect, you know, your landline
telephones, we're gonna connect your treadmill, we're gonna connect your
dishwasher. And then and I start to/ if I take a moment and a start to
think about the number of security updates for me to try and maintain in
awareness of. That's a headache, you know,. And I don't want to adopt all that, I
don't want to implement all that. And so, you know, when I was hearing Bernadette talk
earlier about, well, it makes a lot of sense, the solution can't be managing the
security on individual devices but something that is more holistic, you know, Dane
like what you were alluding to, something that takes into account a much greater
breadth and context of what's going on to manage security more comprehensively.
And attacking it from, I should'nt say attacking, but mitigating security threats from a
more centralized or consolidated place. And so, you're talking about security
threats on the devices themselves but also, you know, Roderigo had alluded to
this earlier talking about the impact to personal privacy. And I'm interested
in, you know,
what sorts of changes, you know, we're talking about the changes that we need to make inside
of the devices themselves but what sorts of changes, you know, how are things,
you know,/
One example I can think of is like the ?hyper? policies that are now in place
to protect patient privacy. What sort of additional policies, I anticipate
more policies like that to help protect the privacy of people from a
policy perspective not necessarily a technology perspective. Can you provide
comments on that ?

well it's interesting about that is recently we've had the situation where we
had the
hack on many celebrities pictures that were uploaded to their cloud-based
services. So now, not only do we have to, you know, have the security on all these
devices but everything is also being virtualized. So not only do you have all of
those computers and systems and connected devices in your home Jeremy, but what
about all the virtual systems and what about the cloud-based systems ? And so
from a personal level, you know, my phone, I take a photograph with my phone and
then two days later it says "hey this is available now to share from your Google
plus account" because it's been automatically updated to my cloud service.
Well, I mean, that's essentially something that a lot of people don't even realize is
happening. So, maybe, you start to wonder, well, are all the celebrities really
uploading all these you know private photos to the web on purpose ? No, it's
being automated for them and they're just not accounting for it and then
that information is then hacked and so it's an added security risks.
So the security risk has expanded to the cloud now. And so, personal privacy is
at
great risk we have/ ,you know, this has been the year of personal data loss with the
target hack that happened and 40 million cards that were compromised. People
are gonna have
to change their behaviors they're gonna have to really monitor the way they're
doing things. And it's definitely gonna have to change the way people do stuff.

So, Bob, how are gonna mitigate the security concerns in the IOE ?

Well, you know, we all know
that the Internet of everything is evolving. More and more devices are
connecting,
security has to change it's, you know, this is a moving target. Bernadette
stated that Cisco is uniquely positioned in the IOE market, and it true
because they are pioneers in the security industry and a they provide an
intense solution with all kinds of products. But if we look at how we're gonna secure
the Internet of everything we can start with things we mention sensors we
mention actuators and controllers in a reputable manufacturers will have to
design for assurance which means that they have to account for security
reliability and are designed to ensure this to be growing pains as we go along
and they will use proprietary protocols and security may not be at the
forefront when their first new coming out these devices but it will know it it
has to be because were evolving and abroad mention the problem with firmware
updates but I can understand how sensors would have be a prominent sensors but
in some devices already have the ability to auto update their third firmware
late I have a Western Digital my cloud drive at home and I get emails once in a
while saying that it updated the firmware automatically in and was it was
successful so that those systems are out there and indeed the bill just get
better especially in a week we mentioned proprietary protocols as it evolves
standards will will be developed and I will make everything work better
together computers we mentioned already there's antivirus and anti-malware and
the board was never sure has made this a lot more difficult with smart phones
tablets and such but you know Cisco has product like any connect which allows
you to establish secure connections through from pretty much any device now
laptop android by phone and such to central network and we mentioned a few
times already in this podcast that you know it's not just about securing the
end devices but it's a it's really we need an intense solution and then the
network is that solution service providers network providers call providers
will have to make sure that they are protecting anything that's connecting as a
comes online and how do they do that or there's all kinds of hardware and
software solutions and for example there's identity-based access control Cisco
has a system called the identity services engine and it enforces that
identity-based access control to mobile devices but also can also enforce it to
the machine to machine network elements like sensors and actuators in the
others also firewalls we can use such as the Cisco adaptive security appliance
that the specific order firewall does it protect since I network from the
outside network so make sure that anything from the insight can go out and come
back but the outside people can come in it's based on sets of rules in the was
also systems like intrusion prevention systems like a Cisco IPS and it
basically monitors your network for malicious activity and it could be known a
malicious stuff but it can also be looking for anomalies in normal traffic
looks like this almost in different types of traffic is evolving and he can
raise flags there's VPN services to protect your data as are not communicating
in and I envision that even though small sensors down the road will establish
small VPN connections to the controllers so that if anybody does intercept the
traffic they would make sense with what with the information the same data
centers in and cloud services are already you have been designed with security
at the forefront of their using software defined defined networks which has
security built in an Cisco solution to that is the Cisco application centric
infrastructure ACI which integrates physical and and virtual security
technologies but know if we mentioned that everybody's mention this it
basically comes down to what the weakest link is and the weakest link in all
security is is basically people we have to like Roderigo said we have to make
sure that or we have to preach to the people that you have to be smart be leery
about sharing your personal information you know whenever there's different
types of data like there's the data that you're volunteering like on Facebook
you're liking something and in your sharing something but there's other types
of information your own personal data have to be conscious of liking for data
such as your credit card score observed data someone nor your phone tracking
where your worrier going with his GPS functionality so you'll be cautious about
what you enable and you know things like you know sometimes you you download an
app and it's asking you do want use your Facebook account to to make this
easier to login will forget that as soon as you click yes this other company
will now have access to contacts and perhaps even photos and what have you so
be smart about what you're doing security is not a solution so I can be a
silver bullet that you know it's it's going to protect everything all of these
solutions are not full proof of the canopy because you were evolving there's
always good to be something new coming on the horizon it's it's a bit like we
mentioned earlier it's a moving target and sure they'll be hiccups and bumps
along the way but as a system evolves matures it's only going to get better you
know I think of you know if you don't want to get a cold if you want to get
sick don't leave your home live in a bubble but no one wants to do that the
same thing with the IOE like you are you have problems and you are getting
Keller no hiccups along the way but I'd rather enjoy the ride and stay at home
in a bubble enjoyed the conversation about security and while security and
privacy risks are very real apparently in the Internet of everything it seems
like it's a matter of posture is about remaining cognizant and aware of what
those risks are as we interact with the Internet everything moving forward and
that we can mitigate those risks moving forward and that you know Cisco has a
lot of technologies in place they can react to real-time risks inside of the
network but also there's a need to responsibility for people for organizations
to have systems in place security policies in place that also help protect the
individuals and the consumers in those organizations accordingly so enjoy this
conversation I want thinker listeners I also want to thank all of our guests
Bob Roderigo Dan and Bernadette thanks for listening to know more about what
you just heard check our show notes at www.Medicare.com/group/offerings/IOE
initial research and writing for these podcast by Rick Graziani and Dave
Holsinger are audio producer is Dan Epstein the Internet of everything podcast
series is produced by Jeremy Creech and Jane Gibbons and is brought to you by
the Cisco networking Academy