Hello, you are listening to the third in a series of podcast introducing the Internet
everything. I am Jeremy Creech, I'll be your host and this podcast series is a
companion to the Cisco networking Academy's introduction to the IOE course. And
joining me today is Rodrigo Floriano, Bob Fishon, Dane Albaghetti and Bernadette
O'Brian.

In our previous show we answer the question why is my alarm clock talking
to my coffeepot. And today I'm looking forward to exploring this more in
terms of how do we make this stuff work for us and it makes me think of
Jean-Louis Gossett and he calls the IOT or the Internet of things a basket of
remotes problem. So Bob can you explain what Jean-Louis Gossett means when he
poses the basket of remotes problem ?

Well I think, what we have to understand is that
in the IOT there's really two realms, there is like, the realm for industry and
manufacturing and big corporations and then there's the consumer market and in
the realm of big industry manufacturing and such, the IOT works really
well. You know, every device has ???, they're security embedded there's
reliability and better, because ,you know, could be lives are at stake and such
so, things
have to work very well and it's been developped and it's been in operation for years
now in the consumer market. I'm sure everyone can relate to this everyone, you
know, we have a remote for TV remote for Blu-ray remote for DVD remote for
your receiver and cable in such. And that's what Jean-Louis Gosset was
saying it was/ we have all of these devices that are smart but their
proprietary there's no open standard that makes them all talk together like the Lord
of the rings one remote to control them all and easily/ Sorry


I like that Bob, I really like that.

Yeah and I think that's what he was leading to/ it's that we still have a ways to go and
I'm sure that in time but if we look back 10 years ago 20 years ago how the
disparate systems were and now how we can do more today. You know, give us
another 5 to 10 years and I think we'll be, you know, a lot further along when it comes to
the consumer IOT.

So, what I hear you saying Bob is that for us to really
realize the value of the IOE across all of the sectors whether it's industrial,
you know,
manufacturing or consumer that we need to recognize that. If we approach
this from a proprietary perspective it's gonna limit the value that we
can gain out of what the IOE/ the opportunity represents. So, as we talk about,
you know,
the standardization and realizing that value, how do we implement that ? Dan I
am wondering can you explain a little bit on how we successfully transition to
the Internet of everything given these challenges ?

Well I think that as
companies and as people and even at (as?) the home user as we have those standards
that will get established we're gonna see/ people are gonna see results in increased
revenues, reduced costs, employee productivity goes up. And we're gonna have better
services and all of those things are to help the IOE get adopted into our
everyday lives. And in the curriculum it basically highlights the different
areas that this is gonna happen in. The area of retail, public sector, service
provider industries and manufacturing. So it's goinna affect us in all these
areas and we're already experiencing it to a certain degree with the smart
devices that we're carrying with us every day and how we/ how those have embedded
themselves and how we work and how companies do business and how we're
already experiencing a lot of these improved efficiencies. And the curriculum
pointed out in different ways in the mining industry examples in the
agricultural industry examples and in retail examples and it points out all of
the different technologies and how they're making their way into our daily
lives whether that's RFID door sensors, an employee tags or shelf sensors,
point-of-sale purchasing devices, all kinds of things. In the public sector we
have on efficiencies like smart buildings, smart lighting, smart grids, smart
traffic systems that improve the flow of traffic and allow for resources to be
better deployed for instance at like for traffic police that are monitoring
accidents that happen in the city so that they can better deploy their
resources to try to reduce traffic accidents within the city in the
manufacturing industry with smart sensors and actuators that are in the
field providing operational dashboards to people who can then react that
information in real time. So we are/ I think it's gonna happen across all those
realms and we're already seeing it but definitely if we have open standards and we
have the move from proprietary protocols to Internet-based protocols and
IP-based devices then this is gonna happen faster.

So I hear you, you know, you're
talking about the value that can be realized as a motivator for the adoption of
IOE technologies, you/ also to the need for standardized protocols and you talk
about the sensors and you talk about the actuators. I am wondering if maybe first
came to me talk a little bit more about, you know, what are the sensors what are these
actuators, you know, where these things look like.

We can all relate to how a computer can
send information to servers and such but I think, you know, a lot of the stuff that Dan
was mentioning is how do we make these noncomputer devices, you know, communicate with us
and that's where the sensors come in. So a sensors is basically a device I can collect
data from the non-computers, and it has the ability to take something from a physical
environment converted to electrical signal and that's processed by some
controller computer down the road. And the sensors have been around for a long time
and there's all kinds of, you know,/ when you go to the department store and you
purchase something/ they all, you know,/ most of the clothing items and merchandise will
now have RFID tags or radio frequency identification tags and these tags
transmit low-power frequencies to an RFID reader and so the store can
keep track of inventory and such. Your pet may also have an RFID tag the size of
a grain of rice at some better under its skin so if it's ever lost, you know,
it will have the information that you can/ your pet can be returned to you. In
agriculture and farming, you know, animals like cows horses and sheep now are
tagged with
external RFID tags as well. And another example is if you consider your car
there's all kinds of, you know, sensors and if we were categorizing we could
say there is motion
sensors, air temperature sensors, humidity sensors, soulmate and moisture sensors and
such. So sensors give us the data so the question now is how do we respond to
that data ? Well that's an export that the actuators and I refer to the actuators has
been the muscle behind the Internet of things, they make things happen. So an
actuators really/ a basic motor that can move or control a system and in the
IOT there's really three types of actuators there is hydraulic which uses fluid
pressure to perform a movement, pneumatic which uses compressed air to do basically
the same thing and there's electrical, so powered by motor that converts
electrical energy to mechanical operation. Now, regardless of how the actuator causes
the movement to be performed, it's basic function is to receive a signal from the
controller and do something with it. So when Dan was talking about
industry and such, so these sensors and actuators have been around for a long
time when it comes to the home it's/ I won't say it's relatively new but
it's coming in more and more, and really there's a great packet Tracer lab and
and a video, I think it's in chapter 3, that covers how the IOE can be implement
in a home like I personally like it because it talks about Bob having always
cool IOE sensors and actuators. But seriously in the package tracer scenario you
could basically follow/ and you could explore a variety of home devices and
manipulate the environmental factor s like raise the temperature and see what
happens or it's raining outside so the ?spring machine? go on and such and it's
actually pretty cool little activity that, you know, folks that are taking the course
can do. I hope this explains sensors and actuators but, you know, the bottom line is that
these two things will play a huge role in connecting the unconnected in the
IOE.

I remember talking in previous episodes about machine to machine,
machine to people and people to people interactions and BoB, it sounds like
you're talking quite a bit on the machine to machine aspect. And so I'm
wondering, can you tell me a little bit more or somebody tell me a little bit
more about these interactions that happen inside of the IOE solution and, you
know, where do
people come into that?

Jeremy I'll answer that one for you. Yeah we've done a lot
of talking about machine to machine interaction, but there's also two other
important interactions in an IOE solution and that's machine to people and
people to people. The people to people interactions are really crucial because
we're talking about people collaborating in real time over large geographic
distances to solve problems. And as I took/ I think in an earlier podcast, I
mentioned the importance to medicine. You know, people, experts and specialists can
become available to people over the network and also all kinds of educational
experts can be available to people across the globe. We've also got to talk
about machine to people, and I think we've had a ton of examples about that in our
discussions and in the realm of health and fitness we've got all kinds of wearable
kind of devices and sensors that give us feedback. And there's one in particular I was
reading about recently and that is a subcutaneous sensor that can be sorted into
your arm and that monitors constantly your blood glucose levels. That actually
can send wirelessly information to your healthcare provider and to you on an
app
to let you know what you numbers. But you know/ it is a great example of machine
to people but also on it goes one step further and send that information to
your healthcare provider as well as just you.

I wonder/ but listening to you talk about that specific example Bernadette

Yeah

So, I mean, it's really one thing it sounds painful, inserting a sensor. But
once it's there, you know, like a monitoring blood glucose
levels it makes me think of diabetics for example and needing their
insulin and needing it at various times based off of what those glucose levels are
reading. And so while you talk about the people to people and the machine the people aspect of it
is sounds like also there could be a machine to machine aspect to it where
perhaps you know they have some sort of a system that injects the insulin and
so based off of an automatic reading it could do an automatic injection.

Exactly and that is actually in development. There is a nano distribution of
medication as a result of those readings and of course in addition,
you know, the healthcare provider can look at, you know, the readings over a
period of time and make further analysis and diagnosis. Not just on this
patient,
but even, you know, take all of this data and make other kinds of decisions.

And that's kind of like taking into account/ you got the/ you got that real-time aspect of the data
which is happening on the machine to machine level, a sensor reads the
glucose levels it determines whether or not it needs to inject insulin but then
you have that historical data or the longitudinal perspective of the data which
is your that is more of a static state rather than data in motion that the
healthcare providers are able to access and take into account as they
consult the respective patient.

Yes Jeremy perfect. So you know the real power
and benefit of the IOE solution is that (from ?) we can create communications
between machines to people and and people to people and machine to machine, if we
can incorporate several of those, a couple of those interactions. In order to
make those connections as we've been talking we've got to get cut through
that proprietary issue and, you know, be able to link IT and operational
technology and I don't know if we defined operational technology but we're
talking about the proprietary systems that are often in place in manufacturing
for example, that control the hardware and the software inside of a
manufacturing plant. So how those equipment...

So, you're talking about the technologies that like, control the robots or
control the/ I remember
working in the cement plant doing some network consulting there and they had,
you know, series of PLCs programmable logic circuits that control like how much
raw resource ?lime? and rock was going into crushers and then how much was
going into kilns and how much was being mixed. But all that operated on some
proprietary technologies and so it sounds like what you're alluding to is the need to
be able to bridge that, which was the operational technology, with now more
traditional IT technologies, like there's a need for convergence there.

Absolutely and you know that can solve some problems, for example in the case of
manufacturing, you know, using automotive industry example. If the manufacturing
floor can get feedback from social media, consumer surveys and orders that
are specific model or even a paint color is in high demand process can be
adjusted immediately. So you/ obviously, you know, we can save an awful lot of time
and money with this kind implementation.

Or not !

Right, usually it's like going into the
Christmas season, they have to think about what they did last Christmas and now
you can just think about what people are doing today to determine what products
you need to create and ?get on? the floor as soon as possible. You know, we're starting to
decrease those times from things that are years or quarters out to like
things that are weeks and days out, you know, making more efficient use of the
resources that are in our hand more efficient use of the production processes.
And I/ then I
can see/ I can see the ripple effect going into the logistics, the
distribution, where it goes. So, I haven't talked (thought?) about that but the
value there is massive.

Yes, in fact in the course they have a great video about a smart
banana that really explains this beautifully. The banana has sensors that signal
that "Oh I'm getting right ahead of time here earlier than expected it's early
harvest", that signal, that sensor alerts the delivery services and they have to
adjust deliveries and get the ripened bananas to the store. In the store
they realize that they're gonna have too many bananas so they put the current stock
on sale. The shoppers get alerted to that via their mobile app on the phone
and then as we put a bananas into the shopping cart "Hoo I'm gonna get a
delicious banana recipe up on my/ on the screen on my shopping cart". So I can go
home and make use of those bananas. I think that says it all.

And in sort to make all this stuff works together, you know, to make the stuff for people
interact with the system, to make the stuff for machines interact with the
system and for them to interact with one another and to take advantage
of the data that is being collected. How do we make that work ? What's
happening behind the scenes if you will to actually get this stuff to work ?

I guess I can take that one Jeremy, and the answer is software it's really/ you
know, you have to
write these programs to make all this happen. And the idea of writing a program
is really the computers they don't really understand/ they don't fully
understand English at this point, I mean we are getting there but not quite
yet right? So the only way we have at this moment to
successfully tell the computer how to perform a task or how to do something it's
ready to write a program in a language that that computer can understand. As if
you're at your home and you look around, you have your cable box, you have your
TV, you have your fridge, you have your digital watch, you have/ all these
electronics are working and they're running programs and as long as they are
running with no hickups, you don't realize they are there, you don't/
they're doing their jobs and it's great you don't/ they're kind of invisible to
you. And I think that's the key right? If you want to get all this stuff
to work/ going back to a Bob was talking about at the beginning/ we have to write
these programs in a way that they will be visible in that
sense right? In the course if you/ I think it's in chapter 3, if I'm not
mistaken, there
is a section about, you know, if you if you have never written a program this
chapter has a little application that is him simulating a coffee monitoring
system so if you're going to the chapter you see a little application that's running
to simulate how the temperature would change and whatnot. And that little
application was written in a way that if you open it up, if you open the code,
you should
be able to understand, there is a bunch of comments in there is a bunch of, you
know, explaining what
each part of the program what it does and how it works so it's a great
way to get your feet wet when it comes to programming. And I dare to say Jeremy
this is gonna be a huge area if you want to get a job in the IOE industry this
is gonna be a huge area, if learn how to write these programs, how to create these things
how to design a piece of software, you are going to be good to go, you're not
gonna be unemployed.

So we have the explosion of connection, you know, as we talk
connecting things there's this/ you know, to facilitate that connection tremendous
amount of work related to connectivity, but then how much more then the
explosion of the programs and the applications to take advantage of those new
things that are now connected. So it's/ I'm starting to see the exponential scale
that the IOE opportunity represents.

In the curriculum Jeremy, it talks about, and I
think this is an chapter four, how the interconnections between IOE devices
and essentially then also between people/ it grows in an exponential fashion
and talks about Metcalfe's law and how the number of connections between
devices and how that's kind of an exponential growth situation and just the
enormous amount of potential there that adds value, that exponential growth in
those connections between devices that are interconnected wirelessly and the mobility
that that adds an amazing amount of value for companies and for people and for
efficiencies and for and for the bottom line.

And that values on based on the amount of
information that can now be shared between devices. So if I understand my
counseler right, you got tow things that are connected and now those things are
sharing information between one another. But now add another to that mix and now
you have three things that are interconnected so he went from one connection to
now a total of three connections, with another single node. Now had one more node
and that node is interconnected to all of the other nodes so that the number
total number of connections at that point has essentially times itself and
thereby the amount of information that can be shared is/ has risen
exponentially.

Right and then you add a value to that system. If you take as an example a fax machine
people don't really have those anymore I guess but the fax machine is useless if it's
alone. But now you have a second person with a fax, that system gain value
'cause'
now the first person can send information to the second. If you keep adding
nodes if you keep adding those same type of machines the system becomes
more and more valuable because now you have more endpoints to send information.

That's like, you just totally described Facebook.

Exactly !

I only go to Facebook when there is a
connection between me and one other person, but you get everybody else on there
and they're all interconnected.

And that's exactly, Jeremy, that's exactly why that same laws being used a lot
to describe and to estimate value of the/
of a social networks. That's exactly what they're doing. They're using that law
estimate a value of a social network based on its user base.

Taking advantage of Metcalfe's law, that make sense.

Well this has been a fantastic conversation I
want to thank our listeners, I want to thank the guests I've really enjoyed talking about the
basket of remotes problem and how that can be resolved as we talk about
implementing IOE solutions moving foward.
Tanks for listening.